By now you're most likely
familiar with the basics of databases and you
might even have come across some
simple SQL syntax. Why do developers use SQL
to interact with databases? SQL is a popular
language choice for databases because of the many
advantages that it offers. Now for the next few minutes, you'll identify the
advantages of SQL and demonstrate how
the advantages of SQL assist with database tasks. SQL is the interface or bridge between a
relational database and its users and offers
web developers a wide range of advantages.
Let's look at a few of them. The biggest advantage
of SQL is that it requires very little
coding skills to use, is just a set of keywords. There aren't many lines
of code required to perform basic CRUD operations, or add, create, update, and delete tasks
on the database. It's a very developer or
user-friendly language. SQL's interactivity
makes it even more user-friendly because
it lets developers write complex queries in
a short space of time. If you need to work
with relational databases for your next project, you just need to know what
keywords to use and when. SQL is also a standard
language that can be used with all relational
databases like MySQL. This also means that
there's a lot of support and
information available. SQL can run on any computer once you've database
software installed. SQL is also a portable language. Once you write your code, it can then be used
in any hardware, on any operating system or
platform wherever you need. If you write SQL
code in a desktop and then move it to a
production server environment, it will run the same
in both locations. Also, SQL is a
comprehensive language that covers all areas of database
management administration. For example, it allows you to create databases,
insert, update, and delete data,
retrieve and share data among multiple users and
manage database security. This is made possible
through subsets of SQL like DDL or Data Definition
Language, DML, also known as Data
Manipulation Language, DQL or Data Query Language, and DCL, also known as
Data Control Language. The final advantage of
SQL is that it lets database users
process large amounts of data quickly and efficiently. You now know that
SQL is a simple, standard, portable,
comprehensive, and efficient language
that can be used to communicate and work with
relational databases. You're well on your way to
mastering SQL. Well done.