Imagine a corporate
database with information about
hundreds of employees. How can you calculate
important things such as salary increases or calculate changes
to allowances for all the employees
accurately and efficiently? With SQL you can use arithmetic operators to
make these adjustments. By the end of this video, you will understand
and be able to describe SQL
arithmetic operators and know how to use these
arithmetic operators to perform functions in SQL. But first, what exactly
are operators in SQL? Operators are specific
words or characters that help you to perform different
activities in a database. They're like conjunctions or connection words you'd use
to compose a sentence. Or the operation keys used to perform a sum in a calculator. Why do you need to
know about operators? Well, when handling
data in a database, at some point, you'll
need to query and manipulate data for
different purposes. SQL operators allow you
to manipulate data as necessary to perform these different activities
in the database. For example, you can use an arithmetic
operation to calculate how many leave days
an employee has left. Or you can compare whether employees are meeting
company targets. There are various types
of operators in SQL, each with different functions. Let's explore a few examples
of arithmetic operators. Arithmetic operators
are commonly used in computer languages to perform a calculation and
return the result. Much like common arithmetic
operators in mathematics, you can use arithmetic
operators in SQL to carry out mathematical
operations in a database. The SQL arithmetic operators and their symbols are
plus for addition, subtraction and asterisk
for multiplication. Forward slash for division, percentage for modulus,
which provides the remainder value of
a division calculation. How does SQL arithmetic
operations work? When performing a calculation, an operator takes two operands
and returns a result. For example, an addition
operator can take five as both of its operands and
returned ten as its result. In SQL, you can apply
the same concept by using the select command
for the various operations. Let's illustrate this concept using the addition operator. You can use the select command
followed by one operand, the addition operator,
and the second operand. Just like the previous example, SQL calculates the two operands
and produces the result. You can repeat the SQL syntax with the other
arithmetic operators. With the subtraction operator, the output result is 0. A multiplication operator
returns a result of 25. The division operator
calculates result as 1. With the modulus operator. The result is 0 as 5 divided by 5 equals 1 with no remainder. Now, let's take a closer look at how to use these
arithmetic operators in SQL. I'll demonstrate how to use arithmetic operators in SQL to perform basic
mathematical operations. Let's try an addition
operation to add two numbers. First, I use the select command and then
type the numbers 10,15, separated by a plus operator, followed by a semicolon. Although the semicolon is
optional in this case, I prefer to still use it as it represents the end
of a SQL statement. The select command
retrieves the value which is the sum of 10 plus 15, and displays it on screen.
Let's run this query. The query produces the result of the example addition
operation, which is 25. Just as I perform this
addition operation, I can do the same
with subtraction, multiplication, division,
and modulus operators. I can use the minus
sign for subtraction, an asterisk star
for multiplication, forward slash for division, and the percentage
sign for modulus. For example, I can type
select 100 modulus 10. This divides 100 by 10, and gives me the remainder
of the division operation. In this case, the
remainder is 0 as 100 divided by 10 equals
10 with no remainder. I run the query and the
remainder of 0 is displayed. That's how you can use
the operator symbols for different basic
operations in SQL. You've learned about secret
arithmetic operators and how to perform basic
operations with them in school. You're now ready to
learn how to apply these arithmetic operators in more practical
ways. Awesome work.