As a database engineer, you'll very often come across
columns in a table that are filled with duplicates of
data and multiple values. This can make it quite
challenging to view, search and sort your data. But with the correct
implementation of normalization, this challenge can
be dealt with. By the end of this video, you'll be able to
demonstrate how to design a database in
first normal form. Identify the atomicity rule
and how to enforce it, and analyze effective
ways to eliminate the repeating group of
data problems in datasets. As you might already know from previous videos in this lesson, the normalization process
makes it easier and more efficient for engineers to
perform basic database tasks. It's an especially
useful process for helping to fix the
well-known insert, delete, and update anomalies. However, in order to achieve
database normalization, you first need to perform the three fundamental
normalization forms. The database normalization forms include first
normal form or 1NF, second normal form or 2NF and
third normal form or 3NF. This video focuses on
designing a database to meet the first normal
form or 1NF rules. These rules enforce data
atomicity and eliminate unnecessary repeating groups
of data in database tables. Data atomicity means
that there must only be one single instance value of the column attribute in
any field of the table. In other words, your tables should only have one
value per field. By eliminating repeating
groups of data, you can avoid repeating data unnecessarily in the database. Instances of repeated data can cause data redundancy
and inconsistency. To understand this better,
let's explore an example, to demonstrate data atomicity. I've built an
unnormalized table called Course Table within
a college database. It includes information about the colleges computing courses, along with the names and contact details of the course tutors. The course ID column serves
as the table's primary key. However, there are
multiple values in each row of the
contact number column. Each row contains two contact
details for each tutor, a cell phone number,
and a landline number. This table isn't in 1NF. It violates the
atomicity rule by including multiple values
in a single field. I can try and fix this by creating a new row
for each number. This solves my data
atomicity problem. The table now has just
one value in each field. But this solution has also
created another problem. The primary key is
no longer unique because multiple rows now
has the same course ID. Another way that I
could solve the problem of atomicity while retaining the primary key is by creating two columns
for contact numbers. One column for cell phones and second column for
landline numbers. But I still have the issue of unnecessary repeated
groups of data. Mary Evans is the assigned
tutor for two of the courses. Her name appears twice in the table as do her
contact details. These instances of
data will continue to reappear if she's assigned
more courses to teach. It's likely that our
details will appear in other tables within
a database system. This means I could have even more groups of repeated data. This creates another problem. If this user changes
any of their details, then I'll have to
update their details in this table and all others
in which it appears. If I miss any of these tables, then I'll have inconsistency and invalid data within
my database system. To solve this issue,
I can redesign my table to adhere to 1NF
or first normal form. First, I identify the
repeating groups of data. In this case is the tutor's
name and contact numbers. Next, I identify the
entities I'm dealing with, which are course and tutor. Then I split the
course table so that I now have one table
for each entity. A course table that contains information about the courses. I choose a table that maintains the name and contact
numbers of each tutor. Now I need to assign a primary
key to the tutor table. I select that tutor ID column. I've solved the problem
of data atomicity, but I also need to provide a
link between the two tables. I can connect the two tables
by using a foreign key. I just add the tutor ID
column to the course table. Now both tables are linked. I've now achieved
data atomicity and eliminated unnecessary
repeating groups of data. You should now be familiar
with 1NF and the rules that you should apply to
avoid it. Good work.