When working with
tables in a database, you may often encounter tables that contain repetitive data. Perhaps two columns contain
values that are very similar. You might split the table in
two to simplify the data. When building
relational databases, you can solve similar issues of repetitive data using what's known as third
normal form, or 3NF. By the end of this video, you'll be able to
understand how to design a database in third normal form, and explain the concept
of transitive dependency. Before we begin, make
sure that you've watched the videos in first and
second normal form. A database must be in first and second normal form before it can be in
third normal form. In addition to these rules, databases can contain any instances of
transitive dependency. In the context of
third normal form, transitive dependency means that a non-key attribute cannot be functionally dependent on
another non-key attribute. In other words,
non-key attributes cannot depend upon one another. A key attribute in a database
is an attribute that helps to uniquely identify
a raw of data in a table. To demonstrate this concept, let's take the example
of a basic table with three columns; A, B, and C. The concept of transitive dependency means that the value of A determines
the value of B. Likewise, the value of B
determines the value of C. The relation between
these table columns is represented by A, B, and C. This means that
A determines C through B. This is the type
of relation that database engineers called
transitive dependency. Let's see how this works
using a more complex example. I have a table of
best-selling books within Europe from the database
of an online bookstore. The table organizes
the books according to five attributes:
Book ID and title, author name, author
language, and country. In this table, ID is the only key or primary key that
exists in the table. All other attributes
are non-key attributes. But to determine what these
non-key attributes are, I most used the ID of
the top-selling books. This means if I want to find any specific information
about any attribute, I need to use the
ID attribute value to find the targeted
attribute value. For example, if I
use the ID of 3, then I can locate the
author, Cormac O'Dwyer, the language,
Irish, the country, Ireland, and so on. However, it's also possible to determine the country
based on the language, or to determine the language
based on the country, and both country and language
are non-key attributes. For example, in the
context of Europe, it's always possible to
determine the country is France, if the language is
French, and vice versa. This means that I
have a transitive dependency in this relation. A non-key attribute depends
on another non-key attribute. This dependency relation
can be presented as follows : Language determines country, and country determines language. The rest of the attributes
are fine as they only depend on the
ID primary key. You can't say, for instance, that author name
determines book title, or that author name
determines language. For example, the author, Michel Leiris has
written two books in two different languages,
French and Spanish. As I've just pointed out, the
only transitive dependency that exists in this example is between language and country. How do I solve this
transitive dependency within my table and remove any
repetition of data? I can split the table
into two tables while joining them to conform
with 3NF rules. I keep the top books table, while splitting off
the country and language columns into a
new table called country. But I also leave the
country column inside the top books table as a foreign key that
connects the two tables. The country table now holds just four records with
no repetition of data. There's no need for
language column within the top books table. Stating the country is enough
to determine the language. Most importantly, all
non-key attributes are determined only by the
primary key in each table. This means that my
table then meets the requirements of 3NF. You should now
know how to design a database in third normal form. You should also be able
to explain the concept of transitive dependency.
Well done.